README.md, before:

# Environment variables with types

Are you tired of converting environment variables to their respective types, like me? Then this package is for you! This package converts the values of environment variables to their respective types, so you don't have to worry about it anymore.

It supports it all (I think, except functions, of course): numbers, booleans, strings, null, undefined, arrays and objects. It also supports nested objects and arrays, in other words, it supports JSON.

## Installation

```bash
npm install env-types
```

## Usage

### With preloaded environment variables
```js
import { Environment } from './index.js';

console.log(`Number: ${Environment.NUMBER} - Type: ${typeof Environment.NUMBER}`);
console.log(`Boolean: ${Environment.BOOLEAN} - Type: ${typeof Environment.BOOLEAN}`);
console.log(`String: ${Environment.STRING} - Type: ${typeof Environment.STRING}`);
console.log(`Null: ${Environment.NULL} - Type: ${typeof Environment.NULL}`);
console.log(`Undefined: ${Environment.UNDEFINED} - Type: ${typeof Environment.UNDEFINED}`);
console.log(`Array: ${Environment.ARRAY} - Type: ${typeof Environment.ARRAY} - Is array: ${Array.isArray(Environment.ARRAY)}`);
console.log(`Object: ${Environment.OBJECT} - Type: ${typeof Environment.OBJECT} - Is object: ${typeof Environment.OBJECT === 'object'}`);
```

### With environment variables loaded in runtime (using dotenv for example)
```js
import dotenv from 'dotenv';
import { Environment } from 'env-types';

// If you're not adding the environment variables before script execution,
// you'll need to call the load method. Like this:
dotenv.config();
Environment.load();

console.log(`Number: ${Environment.NUMBER} - Type: ${typeof Environment.NUMBER}`);
console.log(`Boolean: ${Environment.BOOLEAN} - Type: ${typeof Environment.BOOLEAN}`);
console.log(`String: ${Environment.STRING} - Type: ${typeof Environment.STRING}`);
console.log(`Null: ${Environment.NULL} - Type: ${typeof Environment.NULL}`);
console.log(`Undefined: ${Environment.UNDEFINED} - Type: ${typeof Environment.UNDEFINED}`);
console.log(`Array: ${Environment.ARRAY} - Type: ${typeof Environment.ARRAY} - Is array: ${Array.isArray(Environment.ARRAY)}`);
console.log(`Object: ${Environment.OBJECT} - Type: ${typeof Environment.OBJECT} - Is object: ${typeof Environment.OBJECT === 'object'}`);
```

Commit message:

Added .env file to readme

README.md, after:

# Environment variables with types

Are you tired of converting environment variables to their respective types, like me? Then this package is for you! This package converts the values of environment variables to their respective types, so you don't have to worry about it anymore.

It supports it all (I think, except functions, of course): numbers, booleans, strings, null, undefined, arrays and objects. It also supports nested objects and arrays, in other words, it supports JSON.

## Installation

```bash
npm install env-types
```

## Usage
This is the environment file that will be used in the examples below:
```
NUMBER=1
BOOLEAN=true
STRING=hello world
NULL=null
UNDIFINED=undefined
ARRAY=[1,2,3]
OBJECT={"a":1,"b":2,"c":3}
```

### With preloaded environment variables
```js
import { Environment } from './index.js';

console.log(`Number: ${Environment.NUMBER} - Type: ${typeof Environment.NUMBER}`);
console.log(`Boolean: ${Environment.BOOLEAN} - Type: ${typeof Environment.BOOLEAN}`);
console.log(`String: ${Environment.STRING} - Type: ${typeof Environment.STRING}`);
console.log(`Null: ${Environment.NULL} - Type: ${typeof Environment.NULL}`);
console.log(`Undefined: ${Environment.UNDEFINED} - Type: ${typeof Environment.UNDEFINED}`);
console.log(`Array: ${Environment.ARRAY} - Type: ${typeof Environment.ARRAY} - Is array: ${Array.isArray(Environment.ARRAY)}`);
console.log(`Object: ${Environment.OBJECT} - Type: ${typeof Environment.OBJECT} - Is object: ${typeof Environment.OBJECT === 'object'}`);
```

### With environment variables loaded in runtime (using dotenv for example)
```js
import dotenv from 'dotenv';
import { Environment } from 'env-types';

// If you're not adding the environment variables before script execution,
// you'll need to call the load method. Like this:
dotenv.config();
Environment.load();

console.log(`Number: ${Environment.NUMBER} - Type: ${typeof Environment.NUMBER}`);
console.log(`Boolean: ${Environment.BOOLEAN} - Type: ${typeof Environment.BOOLEAN}`);
console.log(`String: ${Environment.STRING} - Type: ${typeof Environment.STRING}`);
console.log(`Null: ${Environment.NULL} - Type: ${typeof Environment.NULL}`);
console.log(`Undefined: ${Environment.UNDEFINED} - Type: ${typeof Environment.UNDEFINED}`);
console.log(`Array: ${Environment.ARRAY} - Type: ${typeof Environment.ARRAY} - Is array: ${Array.isArray(Environment.ARRAY)}`);
console.log(`Object: ${Environment.OBJECT} - Type: ${typeof Environment.OBJECT} - Is object: ${typeof Environment.OBJECT === 'object'}`);
```
